punishedponepaste
=================

# Requirements
* An HTTP server that can perform URL rewriting and execute PHP 8 code (eg: nginx with php8-fpm,) and the following PHP extensions: pdo, openssl, gd, mbstring, redis.
* A MySQL-compatible server (eg: MariaDB 10.)
* A Redis server.

# Building the JS
When you change the JS, you need to rebuild it. `assets/bundle.js` is used in dev, `assets/bundle.min.js` is used in production.

You need Yarn (version 1, not version 2 - 2 may work, but I haven't tried it.) After that, whenever you change anything under `js/`, you need to run `yarn rollup --config`. Good luck!

# Local Development
1) Set up MySQL/MariaDB and Redis/Valkey and note the host+port and credentials for both.
2) Set up an NGINX site using `doc/nginx.local.conf` as a template; change things for your environment as necessary.
   * Set up a `/etc/hosts` file entry for `ponepaste.local` to `127.0.0.1` if you want to use `ponepaste.local`.
3) Copy `includes/config.sample.php` to `includes/config.php`.
    * Recommend setting `PP_DEBUG` to `true` for local development and testing.
    * Configure `PP_REDIS_*` constant as needed.
    * Configure `$db_*` variables as needed.
4) Copy `config/site.example.php` to `config/site.php`. This does not need to be edited; it can be configured in the site's admin UI later.
5) Import `doc/schema.sql` into the MySQL database you configured above.
6) Create the initial admin user by doing the following:
   * `php -f util/ppadmin.php hashpw` -> enter your desired password, and hit enter. Copy the hashed password to clipboard.
   * Open a MySQL console to the database you configured above, and run something like
     `INSERT INTO users (username, password, role, admin_password_hash) VALUES ('admin', 'THE HASH FROM EARLIER', 2, 'THE SAME HASH FROM EARLIER');`
7) Go to `http://ponepaste.local` (or whatever hostname you configured), log in, and explore the site!

# Production Deployment
1) Set up MySQL/MariaDB and Redis/Valkey and note the host+port and credentials for both.
    * Ensure these are properly secured and firewalled from the public Internet.
2) Set up an NGINX site using `doc/nginx.conf` as a template; change things for your environment as necessary.
    * On initial configuration, you may need to comment out the SSL `server { }` block or change the cert to a dummy (but valid) one,
      just long enough to get one from Let's Encrypt. TLS is mostly left as an exercise to the reader. You can do it!
3) Copy `includes/config.sample.php` to `includes/config.php`.
    * Ensure `PP_DEBUG` is set to `false` for production deployment.
    * Configure the `PP_PASSWORD_PEPPER` constant to be a long and random string, such as generated by `openssl rand -hex 32`.
      This key strengthens the password hashing significantly, and renders the password hashes from a database-only hack/leak effectively uncrackable.
    * Configure the `PP_ENCRYPTION_KEY` constant to be another, different, long and random string, such as generated by `openssl rand -hex 32`.
      This key is used to encrypt all pastes before they are stored in the database. Its use renders the paste data from a database-only hack/leak unrecoverable.
    * Configure `PP_REDIS_*` constant as needed.
    * Configure `$db_*` variables as needed.
4) Copy `config/site.example.php` to `config/site.php`. This does not need to be edited; it can be configured in the site's admin UI later.
5) Import `doc/schema.sql` into the MySQL database you configured above.
6) Create the initial admin user by doing the following:
   * `php -f util/ppadmin.php hashpw` -> enter your desired password, and hit enter. Copy the hashed password to clipboard.
   * Do the same, but use a different password. This second password is the re-authentication password for administrative actions; this is essentially 2FA where both factors are different passwords.
   * Open a MySQL console to the database you configured above, and run something like
     `INSERT INTO users (username, password, role, admin_password_hash) VALUES ('admin', 'THE FIRST HASH FROM EARLIER', 2, 'THE SECOND HASH FROM EARLIER');`
7) Go to `http://{your-domain}`, log in, and explore the site!